---
title: Cgo Call Practice
tags:
  - Go
createTime: 2024/12/19 16:51:55
permalink: /en/article/cgo/
---
Cgo calls are mainly divided into two types:
1. Put C language code into the Go language file in the form of comments.
2. Provide C language code to the Go source code in the form of a shared library.

This article will mention both methods, but mainly talk about the second method. When talking about the second method, we will take Go language calling C++ library-- [Armadillo](https://arma.sourceforge.net/) as an example.

The article will first describe the principles of Cgo, and then describe the two methods of calling. If you only want to see the sample code, you can jump to the back.
<!-- more -->
- [Cgo Principle](/en/article/cgo/#principle-of-cgo)
- [Go File Contains C](/en/article/cgo/#go-file-contains-c)
- [Link External C Library In Go](/en/article/cgo/#linking-external-c-libraries-in-go)

## Cgo usage scenarios
In some of the following scenarios, we may have to use Cgo.

::: note But we must understand that the use of Cgo requires a certain cost, and its complexity is extremely high and difficult to control, so it needs to be used with caution.
:::

1. In order to improve the performance of local code, use C code to replace some Go code. In terms of performance, C code is to Go like assembly code is to C.
2. Sensitive to the latency of Go memory GC, you need to manually manage memory (allocation and release).
3. Make Go bindings (binding) or wrappers for some C language-specific libraries that have no Go alternatives.
4. With legacy C that is difficult to rewrite or replace code to interact.

## Principle Of Cgo
Let's take a look at an example of Cgo call, and use this example to explain the principle of Cgo.

First, let's take a look at a demo code of Cgo call.

::: code-tabs
@tab how_cgo_works.go
```go
package main
// #include <stdio.h>
// #include <stdlib.h>
//
// void print(char *str){
//	printf("%s\n", str)
// }
import "C"

import "unsafe"

func main(){
    s := "Hello, Cgo"
    cs := C.CString(s)
    defer C.free(unsafe.Pointer(cs))
    C.print(cs)  //Hello, Cgo
}
```
:::

We can see that it is different from the regular Go There are several differences compared to the Go file:
1. The C code appears directly in the Go file, but in the form of comments.
2. After the comment, we import a C package `import "C"`.
3. The `main` function calls a function `print` defined in the C code through the C package.
4.
::: There is no blank line between `import "C"` and the comment. Only in this way can the compiler recognize it.
:::

After writing the code, you should compile it, and the compilation of this file is no different from the normal one:
```bash
go build -x -v how_cgo_works.go
```
::: note `-x` `-v` two parameters can output the compilation details of the Go file with Cgo code.
:::

The main operations during the actual compilation:
1. `go build` calls a tool called Cgo.
2. Cgo will recognize and read the C code in the Go source file (how_cgo_works.go), extract it and hand it over to the external C Compiler (such as gcc) for compilation.
3. Finally, link with the target file compiled from the Go source code to become an executable program.

Because of this, the C code in the Go source file should be wrapped with comments and placed under the C pseudo-package. These special syntaxes can be recognized by Cgo.

``` mermaid
---
title: Cgo compilation process
---
flowchart LR
    id1[how_cgo_works.go]
    id2[_cgo_export.c]
    id3[how_cgo_works.cgo2.c]
    id4[_cgo_main.c]
    id5[_x001.o]
    id6[_x002.o]
    id7[_cgo_main.o]
    id8[_cgo_gotypes.go]
    id9[how_cgo_works.cgo1.go]
    id10[_gomod.go]
    id11[_cgo_.o]
    id12[_cgo_import.go]
    id13[_pkg_.a]
    id14[how_cgo_works]
    id15["标准库.a文件
        运行时.a文件"]
    id1-->|cgo|id2
    id1-->|cgo|id3
    id1-->|cgo|id4
    id1-->|cgo|id7
    id1-->|cgo|id8
    id1-->|cgo|id9
    id2-->id5
    id3-->|"clang/gcc"|id6
    id4-->id7
    id5-->|"clang/gcc"|id11
    id5-->|go tool pack|id13
    id6-->|"clang/gcc"|id11
    id6-->|go tool pack|id13
    id7-->|"clang/gcc"|id11
    id11-->|cgo|id12
    id12-->|go tool compile|id13
    id7-->|go tool pack|id13
    id8-->|go tool compile|id13
    id9-->|go tool compile|id13
    id10-->|go tool compile|id13
    id13-->|go tool link|id14
    id15-->|go tool link|id14
```

## Cgo Code Call
### Go File Contains C
We can directly write C++ language into the `.go` file, and the compiler can also successfully recognize it when compiling. This is the simplest way, but it is not often used because it is not friendly to code management.

::: code-tabs
@tab how_cgo_works.go
```go
package main
// #include <stdio.h>
// #include <stdlib.h>
//
// void print(char *str){
//	printf("%s\n", str)
// }
import "C"

import "unsafe"

func main(){
    s := "Hello, Cgo"
    cs := C.CString(s)
    defer C.free(unsafe.Pointer(cs))
    C.print(cs)  //Hello, Cgo
}
```
:::

You can compile directly using the normal `go build` command:

```bash
go build -x -v how_cgo_works.go
```

### Linking External C Libraries In Go
From the code structure point of view, writing a lot of C code in Go source files is not a common practice recommended by Go, so the following will show how to define C functions and variables from Go. Separate from the source code and define it separately.

I recommend using **static build** for Cgo calls. The so-called static build means that all the symbols, instructions and data required for the built application to run are included in its own binary file, without any external dynamic shared library dependencies.

Next, I will use Cgo to call the C++ library--Armadillo as an example to show the whole process. We mainly need to prepare 2 parts:
- [static file](/en/article/cgo/#static-file)
- [code](/en/article/cgo/#code)

#### Static File
If you want to do a static build, we need to compile the C++ library into a binary file for Go language to call.

::: steps
1. Download Armadillo.

    Download website: [Armadillo official website](http://arma.sourceforge.net/).

    It is recommended to use Stable Version.

2. Download Lapack and Blas libraries.

    These two libraries are optimizations for matrix operations. If you want Armadillo has better performance, and users are recommended to download and install it.

3. Cmake installation.

    For specific steps, please refer to [Use CMake to install Armadillo library under Windows, including Lapack and Blas support library](https://blog.csdn.net/weixin_45847407/article/details/122275224).

#### Code
We need to write two parts of code, one for Go language space and one for C language space.

Here we implement a function to calculate `log`: `logTransform()`.

::: file-tree title="Recommended project structure"
- example
    - example_test.go
    - logTransform.cpp
    - logTransform.hpp
    - main.go
- pkg
    - include
        - armadillo_bits
        - armadillo
    - libarmadillo.dll.a
:::

##### Go Language
::: code-tabs
@tab main.go
```go
package main

// #cgo CXXFLAGS: -I../pkg/include -std=c++11
// #cgo LDFLAGS: -L../pkg/ -larmadillo
// #include "logTransform.hpp"
import "C"
import (
	"fmt"
	"time"
	"unsafe"
)

func main() {
	data := make([]float64, 0)
	for i := -10; i < 1000; i++ {
		data = append(data, float64(i))
	}
	fmt.Println(data)

	// 将 Go 切片转换为 C 数组
	dataPtr := (*C.double)(unsafe.Pointer(&data[0]))

	// 创建用于接收结果的 C 数组
	result := make([]float64, len(data))
	resultPtr := (*C.double)(unsafe.Pointer(&result[0]))
	st := time.Now()
	// 调用 C 的包装函数
	C.logTransform(dataPtr, resultPtr, C.int(len(data)))
	dur := time.Since(st)
	fmt.Println(result)
	// 打印结果
	fmt.Println("耗时: ", dur.Seconds(), "秒")
}
```
:::

##### C Language
::: code-tabs
@tab logTransform.hpp

``` c++
#ifdef __cplusplus
extern "C" {
#endif
    void logTransform(const double* data, double* result, int size);
#ifdef __cplusplus
}
#endif

```

@tab logTransform.cpp

``` c++
#include <armadillo>
#include "logTransform.hpp"

extern "C" void logTransform(const double* data, double* result, int size) {
        // 将 C 的数组转换为 Armadillo 的向量
        arma::vec dataVec(const_cast<double*>(data), size, false, true);

        // 调用你的 C++ 函数
        arma::vec resultVec = arma::log(dataVec);

        // 将结果复制回 C 的数组
        std::memcpy(result, resultVec.memptr(), size * sizeof(double));
}
```
:::

<br />

::: info
Here I share a library that I encapsulated myself, which uses Cgo to implement many basic calculation functions. `clone` This project is convenient for viewing the structure and function call relationship between each file.
<RepoCard repo="dingyuqi/go_numcalc" />
:::

## Overhead Of Using Cgo

1. Call overhead.

    Benchmark tests show that the cost of calling C functions through Cgo is nearly 30 times that of calling Go functions.

2. Increase the possibility of a surge in the number of threads.

    Go is famous for its lightweight goroutine to cope with high concurrency. Go will optimize some system calls that would otherwise cause thread blocking. However, since Go cannot control the C space, it is easy to write code that causes thread blocking in the C space during daily development, which increases the possibility of a surge in the number of threads in the Go application process. This deviates from the lightweight concurrency promised by Go.

3. Loss of cross-platform cross-building capabilities.

4. Other overhead.

    - Memory management. The Go space uses a garbage collection mechanism, and C The memory space is managed manually.
    - The powerful tool chain that Go has cannot be used in C. For example, performance analysis tools, test coverage tools, etc.
    - Debugging is difficult.

::: danger When using Cgo, you must pay attention to memory management and need to manually release it in time.
:::

<br /><br /><br />

::: info References for this article
1. [《Go Language Improvement Road》](https://book.douban.com/subject/35720728/)
2. [Cgo from Entry to Abandonment](https://juejin.cn/post/6974581261192921095)
3. [c++ - Cgo cannot find a standard library like "iostream"](https://www.coder.work/article/1027470)
:::
